docs/features.md, before:

# Features

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/editor-code-assistant/eca-emacs/master/demo.gif" width="720"/>

## Chat

Chat is the main feature of ECA, allowing user to talk with LLM to behave like an agent, making changes using tools or just planning changes and next steps with options to rollback messages and changes done by tool call.

### Behaviors

![behaviors](./images/features/chat-behaviors.png){ align=right }

Behavior affect the prompt passed to LLM and the tools to include, ECA allow to override or __create your owns behaviors__, the built-in provider behaviors are:

- `agent`: Make changes to code via file changing tools. (Default) [Prompt here](https://github.com/editor-code-assistant/eca/blob/master/resources/prompts/agent_behavior.md)
- `plan`: Useful to plan changes and define better LLM plan before changing code via agent mode, has ability to preview changes (Check below). [Prompt here](https://github.com/editor-code-assistant/eca/blob/master/resources/prompts/plan_behavior.md)

![](./images/features/plan_preview_change.png)

!!! info "Custom behaviors"

    To create and customize your own behaviors, check the [config](./configuration.md#).

### Tools

![](./images/features/tools.png){ align=right }

ECA leverage tools to give more power to the LLM, this is the best way to make LLMs have more context about your codebase and behave like an agent.
It supports both MCP server tools + ECA native tools.

When passing tools to LLM, ECA will always prefix the tool with the server name, like `eca__directory_tree` or `my-mcp__foo_bar`.

!!! info "Approval / permissions"

    By default, ECA ask to approve all non-read only tools or mcp tools, you can easily configure that, check `toolCall approval` [config](./configuration.md) or try the `plan` behavior.

#### Native tools

ECA support built-in tools to avoid user extra installation and configuration, these tools are always included on models requests that support tools and can be [disabled via config](./configuration.md) `disabledTools`.

=== "Filesystem"

    Provides access to the filesystem for listing, reading, writing, editing and moving files. Operates primarily on workspace files; paths outside the workspace require approval.

    - `directory_tree`: list a directory as a tree (can be recursive).
    - `read_file`: read a file content.
    - `write_file`: write content to a new file.
    - `edit_file`: replace lines of a file with a new content.
    - `preview_edit_file`: Only used in plan mode, showing what changes will happen after user decides to execute the plan.
    - `move_file`: move/rename a file.
    - `grep`: ripgrep/grep for paths with specified content.

=== "Shell"

    Provides access to run shell commands, useful to run build tools, tests, and other common commands, supports exclude/include commands. 

    - `shell_command`: run shell command. Command exclusion can be configured using toolCall approval configuration with regex patterns.

=== "Editor"

    Provides access to get information from editor workspaces.

    - `editor_diagnostics`: Ask client about the diagnostics (like LSP diagnostics).

!!! info "Custom Tools"

    Besides the built-in native tools, ECA allows you to define your own tools by wrapping any command-line executable. This feature enables you to extend ECA's capabilities to match your specific workflows, such as running custom scripts, interacting with internal services, or using your favorite CLI tools.

    Custom tools are configured in your `config.json` file. For a detailed guide on how to set them up, check the [Custom Tools configuration documentation](./configuration.md#custom-tools).

### Contexts

![](./images/features/contexts.png){ align=right }

ECA supports contexts(`@`) including files, dirs, images, MCP resources, which can help LLM generate output with better quality/precision.

Here are the current supported contexts types:

- `file`: a file in the workspace, server will pass its content to LLM (Supports optional line range) and images.
- `directory`: a directory in the workspace, server will read all file contexts and pass to LLM.
- `cursor`: Current file path + cursor position or selection.
- `mcpResource`: resources provided by running MCPs servers.

Besides thoses, ECA supports filepaths(`#`) which are just file paths mentions in the user prompt.

So user can include those contexts in 3 different ways for different purposes:

- `#` in user prompt: ECA will just mention the absolute file path in the user message, LLM may use tools to read the file. __Useful for file path only mention in chat history__.
- `@` in user prompt: ECA will append a user-message with the context full content. __Useful for chat history context__.
- `@` in system prompt (above user prompt): ECA will use it in the instructions/system prompt of LLM request. __Useful for one-time only context__.

<img src="../images/features/contexts-files.gif" width="600">

#### AGENTS.md automatic context

ECA will always include if found the `AGENTS.md` file as context, searching for both `/project-root/AGENTS.md` and `~/.config/eca/AGENTS.md`, it will recursively check for any `@some-file.md` mention as well.

You can ask ECA to create/update this file via `/init` command.
you can check/debug what goes to final prompt with `/prompt-show` as well.

### Commands

![](./images/features/commands.png)

Eca supports commands that usually are triggered via shash (`/`) in the chat, completing in the chat will show the known commands which include ECA commands, MCP prompts and resources.

The built-in commands are:

- `/init`: Create/update the AGENTS.md file with details about the workspace for best LLM output quality.
- `/login`: Log into a provider. Ex: `github-copilot`, `anthropic`.
- `/skills`: List known skills that ECA can load.
- `/compact`: Compact/summarize conversation helping reduce context window.
- `/resume`: Resume a chat from previous session of this workspace folder.
- `/costs`: Show costs about current session.
- `/config`: Show ECA config for troubleshooting.
- `/doctor`: Show information about ECA, useful for troubleshooting.
- `/repo-map-show`: Show the current repoMap context of the session.
- `/prompt-show`: Show the final prompt sent to LLM with all contexts and ECA details.

!!! info "Custom commands"

    It's possible to configure custom command prompts, for more details check [its configuration](./configuration.md#custom-command-prompts)

#### Login

It's possible to login to some providers using `/login` command, ECA will ask and give instructions on how to authenticate in the chosen provider and save the login info globally in its cache `~/.cache/eca/db.transit.json`.

Current supported providers with login:

- `anthropic`: with options to login to Claude Max/Pro or create API keys.
- `github-copilot`: via Github oauth.

### Skills

Following the [skills spec](https://agentskills.io/), ECA supports skills that can teach LLM how to learn about a context or handle a specific task.

![](./images/features/skills.png)

For more details, check [skills configuration](./configuration.md#skills).

### Hooks

Hooks are actions that can run before or after an specific event, useful to notify after prompt finished or to block a tool call doing some check in a script.

![](./images/features/hooks.png)

For more details, check [hooks configuration](./configuration.md#hooks).

## Rewrite

Rewrite allows user to select part of the text and ask ECA to rewrite it.

This is useful for quick LLM instructions to apply to code where you don't need to over control context or prompt too much, 

_Tip: weak models work great like `github-copilot/gpt-4.1`, if you prefer faster responses than accurate._

![](./images/features/rewrite.gif)

For rewrite configuration, check [configuration](./configuration.md#rewrite).

##  Completion (alpha)

Inline code completion

![](./images/features/inline_completion.png)

For mode details check [configuration](./configuration.md#completion).

## OpenTelemetry integration

ECA has support for [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)(otlp), if configured, server tasks, tool calls, and more will be metrified via otlp API.

For more details check [its configuration](./configuration.md#opentelemetry-integration).

Commit message:

Deprecate `behavior` in favor of `agent`.

docs/features.md, after:

# Features

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/editor-code-assistant/eca-emacs/master/demo.gif" width="720"/>

## Chat

Chat is the main feature of ECA, allowing user to talk with LLM to behave like an agent, making changes using tools or just planning changes and next steps with options to rollback messages and changes done by tool call.

### Agents

![agents](./images/features/chat-behaviors.png){ align=right }

Agents affect the prompt passed to LLM and the tools to include, ECA allows you to override or __create your own agents__, the built-in agents are:

- `build`: Make changes to code via file changing tools. (Default) [Prompt here](https://github.com/editor-code-assistant/eca/blob/master/resources/prompts/build_agent.md)
- `plan`: Useful to plan changes and define better LLM plan before changing code via build agent mode, has ability to preview changes (Check below). [Prompt here](https://github.com/editor-code-assistant/eca/blob/master/resources/prompts/plan_agent.md)

![](./images/features/plan_preview_change.png)

!!! info "Custom agents"

    To create and customize your own agents, check the [config](./configuration.md#).

### Tools

![](./images/features/tools.png){ align=right }

ECA leverage tools to give more power to the LLM, this is the best way to make LLMs have more context about your codebase and behave like an agent.
It supports both MCP server tools + ECA native tools.

When passing tools to LLM, ECA will always prefix the tool with the server name, like `eca__directory_tree` or `my-mcp__foo_bar`.

!!! info "Approval / permissions"

    By default, ECA ask to approve all non-read only tools or mcp tools, you can easily configure that, check `toolCall approval` [config](./configuration.md) or try the `plan` agent.

#### Native tools

ECA support built-in tools to avoid user extra installation and configuration, these tools are always included on models requests that support tools and can be [disabled via config](./configuration.md) `disabledTools`.

=== "Filesystem"

    Provides access to the filesystem for listing, reading, writing, editing and moving files. Operates primarily on workspace files; paths outside the workspace require approval.

    - `directory_tree`: list a directory as a tree (can be recursive).
    - `read_file`: read a file content.
    - `write_file`: write content to a new file.
    - `edit_file`: replace lines of a file with a new content.
    - `preview_edit_file`: Only used in plan mode, showing what changes will happen after user decides to execute the plan.
    - `move_file`: move/rename a file.
    - `grep`: ripgrep/grep for paths with specified content.

=== "Shell"

    Provides access to run shell commands, useful to run build tools, tests, and other common commands, supports exclude/include commands. 

    - `shell_command`: run shell command. Command exclusion can be configured using toolCall approval configuration with regex patterns.

=== "Editor"

    Provides access to get information from editor workspaces.

    - `editor_diagnostics`: Ask client about the diagnostics (like LSP diagnostics).

!!! info "Custom Tools"

    Besides the built-in native tools, ECA allows you to define your own tools by wrapping any command-line executable. This feature enables you to extend ECA's capabilities to match your specific workflows, such as running custom scripts, interacting with internal services, or using your favorite CLI tools.

    Custom tools are configured in your `config.json` file. For a detailed guide on how to set them up, check the [Custom Tools configuration documentation](./configuration.md#custom-tools).

### Contexts

![](./images/features/contexts.png){ align=right }

ECA supports contexts(`@`) including files, dirs, images, MCP resources, which can help LLM generate output with better quality/precision.

Here are the current supported contexts types:

- `file`: a file in the workspace, server will pass its content to LLM (Supports optional line range) and images.
- `directory`: a directory in the workspace, server will read all file contexts and pass to LLM.
- `cursor`: Current file path + cursor position or selection.
- `mcpResource`: resources provided by running MCPs servers.

Besides thoses, ECA supports filepaths(`#`) which are just file paths mentions in the user prompt.

So user can include those contexts in 3 different ways for different purposes:

- `#` in user prompt: ECA will just mention the absolute file path in the user message, LLM may use tools to read the file. __Useful for file path only mention in chat history__.
- `@` in user prompt: ECA will append a user-message with the context full content. __Useful for chat history context__.
- `@` in system prompt (above user prompt): ECA will use it in the instructions/system prompt of LLM request. __Useful for one-time only context__.

<img src="../images/features/contexts-files.gif" width="600">

#### AGENTS.md automatic context

ECA will always include if found the `AGENTS.md` file as context, searching for both `/project-root/AGENTS.md` and `~/.config/eca/AGENTS.md`, it will recursively check for any `@some-file.md` mention as well.

You can ask ECA to create/update this file via `/init` command.
you can check/debug what goes to final prompt with `/prompt-show` as well.

### Commands

![](./images/features/commands.png)

Eca supports commands that usually are triggered via shash (`/`) in the chat, completing in the chat will show the known commands which include ECA commands, MCP prompts and resources.

The built-in commands are:

- `/init`: Create/update the AGENTS.md file with details about the workspace for best LLM output quality.
- `/login`: Log into a provider. Ex: `github-copilot`, `anthropic`.
- `/skills`: List known skills that ECA can load.
- `/compact`: Compact/summarize conversation helping reduce context window.
- `/resume`: Resume a chat from previous session of this workspace folder.
- `/costs`: Show costs about current session.
- `/config`: Show ECA config for troubleshooting.
- `/doctor`: Show information about ECA, useful for troubleshooting.
- `/repo-map-show`: Show the current repoMap context of the session.
- `/prompt-show`: Show the final prompt sent to LLM with all contexts and ECA details.

!!! info "Custom commands"

    It's possible to configure custom command prompts, for more details check [its configuration](./configuration.md#custom-command-prompts)

#### Login

It's possible to login to some providers using `/login` command, ECA will ask and give instructions on how to authenticate in the chosen provider and save the login info globally in its cache `~/.cache/eca/db.transit.json`.

Current supported providers with login:

- `anthropic`: with options to login to Claude Max/Pro or create API keys.
- `github-copilot`: via Github oauth.

### Skills

Following the [skills spec](https://agentskills.io/), ECA supports skills that can teach LLM how to learn about a context or handle a specific task.

![](./images/features/skills.png)

For more details, check [skills configuration](./configuration.md#skills).

### Hooks

Hooks are actions that can run before or after an specific event, useful to notify after prompt finished or to block a tool call doing some check in a script.

![](./images/features/hooks.png)

For more details, check [hooks configuration](./configuration.md#hooks).

## Rewrite

Rewrite allows user to select part of the text and ask ECA to rewrite it.

This is useful for quick LLM instructions to apply to code where you don't need to over control context or prompt too much, 

_Tip: weak models work great like `github-copilot/gpt-4.1`, if you prefer faster responses than accurate._

![](./images/features/rewrite.gif)

For rewrite configuration, check [configuration](./configuration.md#rewrite).

##  Completion (alpha)

Inline code completion

![](./images/features/inline_completion.png)

For mode details check [configuration](./configuration.md#completion).

## OpenTelemetry integration

ECA has support for [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)(otlp), if configured, server tasks, tool calls, and more will be metrified via otlp API.

For more details check [its configuration](./configuration.md#opentelemetry-integration).
