docs/models.md, before:

# Models

!!! info Login

    Most providers can be configured via `/login` command, otherwise via `providers` config.

Models capabilities and configurations are retrieved from [models.dev](https://models.dev) API.

ECA will return to clients the models configured, either via config or login.

## Built-in providers and capabilities

| model                                            | tools (MCP) | reasoning / thinking | prompt caching | web_search | image_input |
|--------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------------|----------------|------------|-------------|
| :simple-openai: OpenAI                           | √           | √                    | √              | √          | √           |
| :simple-anthropic: Anthropic (Also subscription) | √           | √                    | √              | √          | √           |
| :simple-githubcopilot: Github Copilot            | √           | √                    | √              | X          | √           |
| :simple-googlegemini: Google                     | √           | √                    | √              | X          | √           |
| :simple-ollama: Ollama local models              | √           | √                    | X              | X          |             |

### Config

Built-in providers have already base initial `providers` configs, so you can change to add models or set its key/url.

For more details, check the [config schema](./configuration.md#all-configs).

Example:

```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "openai": {
      "key": "your-openai-key-here", // configuring a key
      "models": {
        "o1": {} // adding models to a built-in provider
        "o3": {
          "extraPayload": { // adding to the payload sent to LLM
            "temperature": 0.5
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment Variables**: You can also set API keys using environment variables following `"<PROVIDER>_API_KEY"`, examples:

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for OpenAI
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` for Anthropic

## Custom providers

ECA allows you to configure custom LLM providers that follow API schemas similar to OpenAI or Anthropic. This is useful when you want to use:

- Self-hosted LLM servers (like LiteLLM)
- Custom company LLM endpoints
- Additional cloud providers not natively supported

You just need to add your provider to `providers` and make sure add the required fields

Schema:

| Option                        | Type   | Description                                                                                                  | Required |
|-------------------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `api`                         | string | The API schema to use (`"openai-responses"`, `"openai-chat"`, or `"anthropic"`)                              | Yes      |
| `urlEnv`                      | string | Environment variable name containing the API URL                                                             | No*      |
| `url`                         | string | Direct API URL (use instead of `urlEnv`)                                                                     | No*      |
| `keyEnv`                      | string | Environment variable name containing the API key                                                             | No*      |
| `keyRc`                       | string | Lookup specification to read the API key from Unix RC [credential files](#credential-file-authentication)    | No*      |
| `key`                         | string | Direct API key (use instead of `keyEnv`)                                                                     | No*      |
| `completionUrlRelativePath`   | string | Optional override for the completion endpoint path (see defaults below and examples like Azure)              | No       |
| `models`                      | map    | Key: model name, value: its config                                                                           | Yes      |
| `models <model> extraPayload` | map    | Extra payload sent in body to LLM                                                                            | No       |
| `models <model> modelName`    | string | Override model name, useful to have multiple models with different configs and names that use same LLM model | No       |

_* url and key will be searched as envs `<provider>_API_URL` and `<provider>_API_KEY`, they require the env to be found or config to work._

Examples:

=== "Custom provider"

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "my-company": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "urlEnv": "MY_COMPANY_API_URL", // or "url"
          "keyEnv": "MY_COMPANY_API_KEY", // or "key"
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {},
            "deepseek-r1": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Custom model settings / payload"

    Using `modelName`, you can configure multiple model names using same model with different settings:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "openai": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "models": { 
            "gpt-5": {},
            "gpt-5-high": {
              "modelName": "gpt-5",
              "extraPayload": { "reasoning": {"effort": "high"}}
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
    
    This way both will use gpt-5 model but one will override the reasoning to be high instead of the default.

### API Types

When configuring custom providers, choose the appropriate API type:

- **`anthropic`**: Anthropic's native API for Claude models.
- **`openai-responses`**: OpenAI's new responses API endpoint (`/v1/responses`). Best for OpenAI models with enhanced features like reasoning and web search.
- **`openai-chat`**: Standard OpenAI Chat Completions API (`/v1/chat/completions`). Use this for most third-party providers:
    - OpenRouter
    - DeepSeek
    - Together AI
    - Groq
    - Local LiteLLM servers
    - Any OpenAI-compatible provider

Most third-party providers use the `openai-chat` API for compatibility with existing tools and libraries.

#### Endpoint override (completionUrlRelativePath)

Some providers require a non-standard or versioned completion endpoint path. Use `completionUrlRelativePath` to override the default path appended to your provider `url`.

Defaults by API type:
- `openai-responses`: `/v1/responses`
- `openai-chat`: `/v1/chat/completions`
- `anthropic`: `/v1/messages`

Only set this when your provider uses a different path or expects query parameters at the endpoint (e.g., Azure API versioning).

### Credential File Authentication

Use `keyRc` in your provider config to read credentials from `~/.authinfo(.gpg)` or `~/.netrc(.gpg)` without storing keys directly in config or env vars.

Example:

```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "openai": {"keyRc": "api.openai.com"},
    "anthropic": {"keyRc": "work@api.anthropic.com"}
  }
}
```

keyRc lookup specification format: `[login@]machine[:port]` (e.g., `api.openai.com`, `work@api.anthropic.com`, `api.custom.com:8443`).

Further reading on credential file formats:
- [Emacs authinfo documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/auth/Help-for-users.html)
- [Curl Netrc documentation](https://everything.curl.dev/usingcurl/netrc)
- [GNU Inetutils .netrc documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html)

Notes:
- Preferred files are GPG-encrypted (`~/.authinfo.gpg` / `~/.netrc.gpg`); plaintext variants are supported.
- Authentication priority (short): `key` > `keyRc files` > `keyEnv` > OAuth.
- All providers with API key auth can use credential files.

## Providers examples

=== "Anthropic"

    1. Login to Anthropic via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'anthropic' and send it.
    3. Type the chosen method
    4. Authenticate in your browser, copy the code.
    5. Paste and send the code and done!

=== "Github Copilot"

    1. Login to Github copilot via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'github-copilot' and send it.
    3. Authenticate in Github in your browser with the given code.
    4. Type anything in the chat to continue and done!

    _Tip: check [Your Copilot plan](https://github.com/settings/copilot/features) to enable models to your account._

=== "Google / Gemini"

    1. Login to Google via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'google' and send it.
    3. Choose 'manual' and type your Google/Gemini API key. (You need to create a key in [google studio](https://aistudio.google.com/api-keys))

=== "LiteLLM"

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "litellm": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "url": "https://litellm.my-company.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {},
            "deepseek-r1": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "OpenRouter"

    [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai) provides access to many models through a unified API:

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'openrouter' and send it.
    3. Specify your Openrouter API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `openai/gpt-5`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "openrouter": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "url": "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet": {},
            "openai/gpt-4-turbo": {},
            "meta-llama/llama-3.1-405b": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "DeepSeek"

    [DeepSeek](https://deepseek.com) offers powerful reasoning and coding models:

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'deepseek' and send it.
    3. Specify your Deepseek API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `deepseek-chat`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "deepseek": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "url": "https://api.deepseek.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "deepseek-chat": {},
            "deepseek-coder": {},
            "deepseek-reasoner": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Azure OpenAI"

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'azure' and send it.
    3. Specify your API key.
    4. Specify your API url with your resource, ex: 'https://your-resource-name.openai.azure.com'.
    5. Inform at least a model, ex: `gpt-5`
    6. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "azure": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "url": "https://your-resource-name.openai.azure.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "completionUrlRelativePath": "/openai/responses?api-version=2025-04-01-preview",
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Z.ai"

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'azure' and send it.
    3. Specify your API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `GLM-4.5`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "z-ai": {
          "api": "anthropic",
          "url": "https://api.z.ai/api/anthropic",
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "GLM-4.5": {},
            "GLM-4.5-Air": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

Commit message:

Simplify credential reading, support plain-text netrc only.
drop authinfo and gpg decryption logic
added a netrcFile in eca config for flexible use-cases

docs/models.md, after:

# Models

!!! info Login

    Most providers can be configured via `/login` command, otherwise via `providers` config.

Models capabilities and configurations are retrieved from [models.dev](https://models.dev) API.

ECA will return to clients the models configured, either via config or login.

## Built-in providers and capabilities

| model                                            | tools (MCP) | reasoning / thinking | prompt caching | web_search | image_input |
|--------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------------|----------------|------------|-------------|
| :simple-openai: OpenAI                           | √           | √                    | √              | √          | √           |
| :simple-anthropic: Anthropic (Also subscription) | √           | √                    | √              | √          | √           |
| :simple-githubcopilot: Github Copilot            | √           | √                    | √              | X          | √           |
| :simple-googlegemini: Google                     | √           | √                    | √              | X          | √           |
| :simple-ollama: Ollama local models              | √           | √                    | X              | X          |             |

### Config

Built-in providers have already base initial `providers` configs, so you can change to add models or set its key/url.

For more details, check the [config schema](./configuration.md#all-configs).

Example:

```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "openai": {
      "key": "your-openai-key-here", // configuring a key
      "models": {
        "o1": {} // adding models to a built-in provider
        "o3": {
          "extraPayload": { // adding to the payload sent to LLM
            "temperature": 0.5
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment Variables**: You can also set API keys using environment variables following `"<PROVIDER>_API_KEY"`, examples:

- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for OpenAI
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` for Anthropic

## Custom providers

ECA allows you to configure custom LLM providers that follow API schemas similar to OpenAI or Anthropic. This is useful when you want to use:

- Self-hosted LLM servers (like LiteLLM)
- Custom company LLM endpoints
- Additional cloud providers not natively supported

You just need to add your provider to `providers` and make sure add the required fields

Schema:

| Option                        | Type   | Description                                                                                                  | Required |
|-------------------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `api`                         | string | The API schema to use (`"openai-responses"`, `"openai-chat"`, or `"anthropic"`)                              | Yes      |
| `urlEnv`                      | string | Environment variable name containing the API URL                                                             | No*      |
| `url`                         | string | Direct API URL (use instead of `urlEnv`)                                                                     | No*      |
| `keyEnv`                      | string | Environment variable name containing the API key                                                             | No*      |
| `keyRc`                       | string | Lookup specification to read the API key from Unix RC [credential files](#credential-file-authentication)    | No*      |
| `key`                         | string | Direct API key (use instead of `keyEnv`)                                                                     | No*      |
| `completionUrlRelativePath`   | string | Optional override for the completion endpoint path (see defaults below and examples like Azure)              | No       |
| `models`                      | map    | Key: model name, value: its config                                                                           | Yes      |
| `models <model> extraPayload` | map    | Extra payload sent in body to LLM                                                                            | No       |
| `models <model> modelName`    | string | Override model name, useful to have multiple models with different configs and names that use same LLM model | No       |

_* url and key will be searched as envs `<provider>_API_URL` and `<provider>_API_KEY`, they require the env to be found or config to work._

Examples:

=== "Custom provider"

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "my-company": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "urlEnv": "MY_COMPANY_API_URL", // or "url"
          "keyEnv": "MY_COMPANY_API_KEY", // or "key"
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {},
            "deepseek-r1": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Custom model settings / payload"

    Using `modelName`, you can configure multiple model names using same model with different settings:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "openai": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "models": { 
            "gpt-5": {},
            "gpt-5-high": {
              "modelName": "gpt-5",
              "extraPayload": { "reasoning": {"effort": "high"}}
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
    
    This way both will use gpt-5 model but one will override the reasoning to be high instead of the default.

### API Types

When configuring custom providers, choose the appropriate API type:

- **`anthropic`**: Anthropic's native API for Claude models.
- **`openai-responses`**: OpenAI's new responses API endpoint (`/v1/responses`). Best for OpenAI models with enhanced features like reasoning and web search.
- **`openai-chat`**: Standard OpenAI Chat Completions API (`/v1/chat/completions`). Use this for most third-party providers:
    - OpenRouter
    - DeepSeek
    - Together AI
    - Groq
    - Local LiteLLM servers
    - Any OpenAI-compatible provider

Most third-party providers use the `openai-chat` API for compatibility with existing tools and libraries.

#### Endpoint override (completionUrlRelativePath)

Some providers require a non-standard or versioned completion endpoint path. Use `completionUrlRelativePath` to override the default path appended to your provider `url`.

Defaults by API type:
- `openai-responses`: `/v1/responses`
- `openai-chat`: `/v1/chat/completions`
- `anthropic`: `/v1/messages`

Only set this when your provider uses a different path or expects query parameters at the endpoint (e.g., Azure API versioning).

### Credential File Authentication

ECA also supports standard plain-text .netrc file format for reading credentials.

Use `keyRc` in your provider config to read credentials from `~/.netrc` without storing keys directly in config or env vars.

Example:

```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
{
  "providers": {
    "openai": {"keyRc": "api.openai.com"},
    "anthropic": {"keyRc": "work@api.anthropic.com"}
  }
}
```

keyRc lookup specification format: `[login@]machine[:port]` (e.g., `api.openai.com`, `work@api.anthropic.com`, `api.custom.com:8443`).

ECA by default search .netrc file stored in user's home directory. You can also provide the path to the actual file to use with `:netrcFile` in ECA config.

Tip for those wish to store their credentials encrypted with tools like gpg or age:

```bash
# via secure tempororay file
gpg --batch -q -d ./netrc.gpg > /tmp/netrc.$$ && chmod 600 /tmp/netrc.$$ && ECA_CONFIG='{"netrcFile": "/tmp/netrc.$$"}' eca server && shred -u /tmp/netrc.$$
```

Further reading on credential file formats:
- [Curl Netrc documentation](https://everything.curl.dev/usingcurl/netrc)
- [GNU Inetutils .netrc documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html)

Notes:
- Authentication priority (short): `key` > `keyRc files` > `keyEnv` > OAuth.
- All providers with API key auth can use credential files.

## Providers examples

=== "Anthropic"

    1. Login to Anthropic via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'anthropic' and send it.
    3. Type the chosen method
    4. Authenticate in your browser, copy the code.
    5. Paste and send the code and done!

=== "Github Copilot"

    1. Login to Github copilot via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'github-copilot' and send it.
    3. Authenticate in Github in your browser with the given code.
    4. Type anything in the chat to continue and done!

    _Tip: check [Your Copilot plan](https://github.com/settings/copilot/features) to enable models to your account._

=== "Google / Gemini"

    1. Login to Google via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'google' and send it.
    3. Choose 'manual' and type your Google/Gemini API key. (You need to create a key in [google studio](https://aistudio.google.com/api-keys))

=== "LiteLLM"

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "litellm": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "url": "https://litellm.my-company.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {},
            "deepseek-r1": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "OpenRouter"

    [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai) provides access to many models through a unified API:

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'openrouter' and send it.
    3. Specify your Openrouter API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `openai/gpt-5`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "openrouter": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "url": "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet": {},
            "openai/gpt-4-turbo": {},
            "meta-llama/llama-3.1-405b": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "DeepSeek"

    [DeepSeek](https://deepseek.com) offers powerful reasoning and coding models:

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'deepseek' and send it.
    3. Specify your Deepseek API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `deepseek-chat`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "deepseek": {
          "api": "openai-chat",
          "url": "https://api.deepseek.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "deepseek-chat": {},
            "deepseek-coder": {},
            "deepseek-reasoner": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Azure OpenAI"

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'azure' and send it.
    3. Specify your API key.
    4. Specify your API url with your resource, ex: 'https://your-resource-name.openai.azure.com'.
    5. Inform at least a model, ex: `gpt-5`
    6. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "azure": {
          "api": "openai-responses",
          "url": "https://your-resource-name.openai.azure.com", // or "urlEnv"
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "completionUrlRelativePath": "/openai/responses?api-version=2025-04-01-preview",
          "models": {
            "gpt-5": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Z.ai"

    1. Login via the chat command `/login`.
    2. Type 'azure' and send it.
    3. Specify your API key.
    4. Inform at least a model, ex: `GLM-4.5`
    5. Done, it should be saved to your global config.

    or manually via config:

    ```javascript title="~/.config/eca/config.json"
    {
      "providers": {
        "z-ai": {
          "api": "anthropic",
          "url": "https://api.z.ai/api/anthropic",
          "key": "your-api-key", // or "keyEnv"
          "models": {
            "GLM-4.5": {},
            "GLM-4.5-Air": {}
           }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
